but with no end to the conflict in sight
we've seen near daily strikes in or near
Gaza Hospital compounds by Israel the
Geneva conventions are a series of
international treaties governing conduct
during armed conflict and we want to run
you through what they say the main
message is very clear that hospitals and
medical personnel are off limits during
war deliberate attacks on hospitals are
considered a war crime that includes
strikes on Health Care Facilities that
aren't military targets the conventions
State medical staff and transportation
such as ambulances must be protected
they also say medical personnel should
be considered neutral players to be left
alone to preserve and Safeguard lives a
violation of these humanitarian
principles have consequences including
legal prosecution cordula droga is the
chief legal officer at the international
Committee of the Red Cross and you're
joining us from Geneva thank you for
your time today you know a lot of our
viewers they're watching the news and
they're wondering what's legal what's
not legal now a little disclaimer here I
know you don't want to address one
specific event and be the judge of it on
air for us and we understand that um
with that caveat out there what is the
general guideline because we are seeing
strikes on hospitals ambulances all the
things that we just said that in the con
in the Geneva con according to the
Geneva Convention are not allowed even
in times of
War yes the general rule is that
hospital hospitals Medical Care the
medical functions medical personnel
ambulances must not only be respected
but they must also be protected and this
is because they have a life-saving
function always but in War of course in
particular so the rule the general rule
is that they can't be
attacked sorry goad the exception
is if they are misused um and used by uh
the opposite side to commit acts harmful
to the enemy so for instance As Weapons
Depot as um to hide able-bodied fighters
to launch attacks then they can lose
their protection against
attack okay that doesn't mean then that
doesn't mean though that there's then a
free license to attack because any
attack in in armed conflict always has
to still respect the principles of
distinction between combatants and
civilians and between civilian objects
and Fighters and the principles of
proportionality and precaution and what
that means is that any attack on a part
of a hospital um still needs to take
into account that the patients in the
hospital the medical personnel the
medical equipment the medical supplies
all of this remains protected and also
don't forget that hospitals often are
not just one place they consist of many
separate places and so again there you
have to really just um look at what is
actually being used very specifically to
um to uh as an act to be harmful to the
enemy so we have heard during this
conflict Israel say that this or that
medical Target whether it's a hospital
whether it's an ambulance has lost its
protection under international law
because it was either used to um to
shelter Fighters or or because weapons
because Israel believed that there was
weapons in one of those uh
places how in the in the moment how does
one you know how do our viewers make the
determination whether it is therefore
legal or not legal to strike that
ambulance or that
hospital whether it's legal or not legal
to strike really depends on the facts on
the ground and whether in actual fact
the party has really verified that a
part of of a
military installation is used for ACT
sample to the enemy but as I said don't
forget in the hospital in the ambulance
there are patients in the case of Gaza
there are of course also people who have
sought Refuge so civilians will be
present patients will be present medical
personnel will be present and that needs
to be taken into account as well in
determining the lawfulness of you so I
suppose that when we come to this issue
of proportionality right if it's a
strike on a Target that has civilians or
maybe even patients and Medical Teams
you're saying even in the event that the
party that conducts that strike were
able to prove that the target had um had
been used for military purpose there
needs to be proportionality in the
strike am I getting this
right absolutely and even before we're
talking about attacks on hospitals I
think what we also need to look at in
Wartime is that hospitals need to be
need to continue functioning in their
medical function and this requires that
they have the you know the medical
supplies the equipment the water the
food for the patients necessary for
their functioning and therefore also it
is an obligation of the of all parties
in a conflict to allow and facilitate
humanitarian relief to reach hospitals
uh medical equipment and also medical
personnel to be able to reach the areas
where the patients are in order to treat
them and if that isn't done then the
hospitals will cease to function uh and
will not be able to treat the patients
even though that is this up most basic
tenant of international humanitarian law
is that patients the wounded and sick
need to be cared for okay thank you so
much for laying all of that out because
it's a question we've been asking over
and over again really since the
beginning of this conflict but we keep
trying to finesse it and update it
because as people watch the news that's
one of the big questions that they have
cordula droga Chief legal officer at the
international Committee of the Red Cross
thank
you thank you